# Langeuages

## Requirements

Also, each language might have additional requirements. Refer to `README` for each language.

- [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/)
  - Some snippets are written as jupyter notebook.
  - To install:
    ```sh
    pipx install jupyterlab
    ```
- [Jupytext](https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext)
  - [Documentation](https://jupytext.org/)
  - Convert between `ipynb` <-> markdown and many others.
    - When convertion markdown, each code block is put into code cell and remainings are treated as markdown.
  - To install:
    ```sh
    pip install jupytext
    ```
    - Installing via `pip` integrates jupytext with jupyter in addition to installing binary. You can use `pipx` if you just need jupytext binary.
- [Jupyter Real-Time Collaboration](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyter-collaboration)
  - This is technically an optional, but it enables autoloading of modified files on the disk and it makes a lot easier to work on the notebooks generated by jupytext.  
  - To install:
    ```sh
    pip install jupyter-collaboration
    ```
    - This is a plugin and not a binary so `pipx` cannot install it.

### Jupytext

#### Paired notebooks

When jupytext is integrated with jupyter, [Paired Notebooks](https://jupytext.org/using/paired-notebooks/) can be enabled.
> - When a paired notebook is saved, all the files in the pair are updated (or recreated) with the new notebook content.

For example, when a markdown files is paired with Jupyter Notebook (`.ipynb`), editing the markdown file updates Notebook and vice versa.

There are some caveats though.  
If a text notebook (markdown etc.) is added on jupyter GUI, a pair is auto generated on save without a problem. But if a text notebook is added outside jupyter, you need to go through extra steps.

- Add metadata to the text notebook (e.g. for markdown)
  ```sh
  jupytext --set-formats ipynb,md <md_file_path>/<ipynb_file_path>
  ```
  - The metadata contains `main_language` and for markdown file, if there is no code block in the file, it defaults to `python`. Then if you add code blocks of other language than python, Jupyter will not render is properly and code blocks will not run. Make sure there are some code blocks with language specified.
  - This command also create a paired notebook.
- Open the text notebook and the paired notebook on jupyter GUI.
  - jupyter-collaboration autoloads external edits in the text notebook, and paried notebook feature propagates the change to Jupyter Notebook.
